(light music)
All right, in this video we have
an assignment for you, this is to configure MySQL.
Now, what I want you to do is create
a local MySQL instance for use in this course.
It is up to you whether to install it natively
on your system or in a Docker container,
I personally use a Docker container,
that's why I included Docker in this course,
so we can spool up a Docker container
and run MySQL in that or run it locally on your system.
So that is up to you.
And what we want to do is set up two databases,
one for dev and one for prod,
I want you to call these databases sfg_dev and sfg_prod.
So what we're going to be doing here is setting up our database
to emulate a development environment for MySQL
and a production environment for MySQL.
Now, using MySQL root user is not a good practice,
I'm going to show you best practices here,
if you use a root user
you're basically giving the application god access
to the database and it can do a lot of damage
and that likely leaves you wide open to having damage done
by SQL injection attacks or a malicious user
that gets the credentials could do
a lot of damage to your database.
So this is very common in enterprises
to create accounts with minimal security required.
It does take a little bit of extra work on our part
to create these accounts, but as a rule of thumb,
if you're in a company, especially if you're in a company
and have a database that you're going to be using
and if you're publicly traded here in the States
you have to be worried about SOX compliance,
if you're taking credit cards you have
to worry about PCI compliance,
if you're in financial services
you're probably looking at SAS 70 compliance
and all these regulations say
that you need to lock down your systems
and use what's called service accounts.
So that's what I'm going to be showing you here,
how to do is create service accounts
and we want to set up two different accounts in the database,
one for dev and one for prod,
we're going to call it sfg_dev_user and sfg_prod_user.
These will have DML access,
and by DML I mean Data Manipulation Language,
this will allow that account to do basic CRUD operations
to that database. But neither one should have DDL access,
and that's Data Definition Language.
So these accounts will not be allowed to change
the database structure at all.
So they won't be able to create tables
and they won't be able to drop tables.
So that's more of what concerns me, able to drop a table.
Now, I know that a lot of you are not SQL experts
so I'm going to put the scripts up there in GitHub
and in the next video we're going to go through step by step,
so I'm going to create the scripts to set up the database
and we'll save them, they will be in the course resources.
In the next video lecture we'll go through step by step
of setting up our database for use
and then in the rest of this section of the course
we are going to be looking at configuring Spring
and using Spring Profiles to connect
to these different configurations of the database.